doc/admin-guide/files/storage.config.en.rst, before:

.. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
   or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
   distributed with this work for additional information
   regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
   to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
   "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
   with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
   software distributed under the License is distributed on an
   "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
   KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
   specific language governing permissions and limitations
   under the License.

==============
storage.config
==============

.. configfile:: storage.config

The :file:`storage.config` file (by default, located in
``/usr/local/etc/trafficserver/``) lists all the files, directories, and/or
hard disk partitions that make up the Traffic Server cache. After you
modify the :file:`storage.config` file the new settings will not be effective until Traffic Server is restarted.

Format
======

The format of the :file:`storage.config` file is a series of lines of the form

   *pathname* *size* [ ``volume=``\ *number* ] [ ``id=``\ *string* ]

where :arg:`pathname` is the name of a partition, directory or file, :arg:`size` is the size of the
named partition, directory or file (in bytes), and :arg:`volume` is the volume number used in the
files :file:`volume.config` and :file:`hosting.config`. :arg:`id` is used for seeding the
:ref:`assignment-table`. You must specify a size for directories; size is optional for files and raw
partitions. :arg:`volume` and arg:`seed` are optional.

.. note::

   The :arg:`volume` option is independent of the :arg:`seed` option and either can be used with or without the other,
   and their ordering on the line is irrelevant.

.. note::

   If the :arg:`id` option is used every use must have a unique value for :arg:`string`.

You can use any partition of any size. For best performance:

-  Use raw disk partitions.
-  For each disk, make all partitions the same size.
-  For each node, use the same number of partitions on all disks.
-  Group similar kinds of storage into different volumes. For example
   split out SSD's or RAM drives into their own volume.

Specify pathnames according to your operating system requirements. See
the following examples. In the :file:`storage.config` file, a formatted or
raw disk must be at least 128 MB.

When using raw disk or partitions, you should make sure the :ts:cv:`Traffic
Server user <proxy.config.admin.user_id>` used by the Traffic Server process
has read and write privileges on the raw disk device or partition. One good
practice is to make sure the device file is set with 'g+rw' and the Traffic
Server user is in the group which owns the device file.  However, some
operating systems have stronger requirements - see the following examples for
more information.

As with standard ``records.config`` integers, human readable prefixes are also
supported. They include

   - ``K`` Kilobytes (1024 bytes)
   - ``M`` Megabytes (1024^2 or 1,048,576 bytes)
   - ``G`` Gigabytes (1024^3 or 1,073,741,824 bytes)
   - ``T`` Terabytes (1024^4 or 1,099,511,627,776 bytes)

.. _assignment-table:

Assignment Table
----------------

Each storage element defined in :file:`storage.config` is divided in to :term:`stripes <cache stripe>`. The
assignment table maps from an object URL to a specific stripe. The table is initialized based on a
pseudo-random process which is seeded by hashing a string for each stripe. This string is composed
of a base string, an offset (the start of the stripe on the storage element), and the length of the
stripe. By default the path for the storage is used as the base string. This ensures that each
stripe has a unique string for the assignment hash. This does make the assignment table very
sensitive to the path for the storage elements and changing even one can have a cascading effect
which will effectively clear most of the cache. This can be problem when drives fail and a system
reboot causes the path names to change.

The :arg:`id` option can be used to create a fixed string that an administrator can use to keep the
assignment table consistent by maintaining the mapping from physical device to base string even in the presence of hardware changes and failures.

Examples
========

The following basic example shows 128 MB of cache storage in the
``/big_dir`` directory::

   /big_dir 134217728

You can use the ``.`` symbol for the current directory. Here is an
example for 64 MB of cache storage in the current directory::

   . 134217728

As an alternative, using the human readable prefixes, you can express a 64GB
cache file with::

   /really_big_dir 64G


.. note::
    When using on-filesystem cache disk storage, you can only have one such
    directory specified. This will be addressed in a future version.


Solaris Example
---------------

The following example is for the Solaris operating system::

   /dev/rdsk/c0t0d0s5
   /dev/rdsk/c0t0d1s5

.. note:: Size is optional. If not specified, the entire partition is used.

Linux Example
-------------
.. note::
    Rather than refer to disk devices like ``/dev/sda``, ``/dev/sdb``, etc.,
    modern Linux supports `alternative symlinked names for disk devices
    <https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/persistent_block_device_naming#by-id_and_by-path>`_ in the ``/dev/disk``
    directory structure. As noted for the :ref:`assignment-table` the path used for the disk can effect
    the cache if it changes. This can be ameloriated in some cases by using one of the alternate paths
    in via ``/dev/disk``. Note that if the ``by-id`` or ``by-path`` style is used, replacing a failed drive will cause
    that path to change because the new drive will have a different physical ID or path. The original hash string can
    be kept by adding :arg:`id` or :arg:`path` with the original path to the storage line.

    If this is not sufficient then the :arg:`id` or :arg:`path` argument should be used to create a more permanent
    assignment table. An example would be::

       /dev/sde id=cache.disk.0
       /dev/sdg id=cache.disk.1

The following example will use an entire raw disk in the Linux operating
system::

   /dev/disk/by-id/[DiskA_ID]    volume=1
   /dev/disk/by-path/[DiskB_Path]   volume=2

In order to make sure :program:`traffic_server` will have access to this disk
you can use :manpage:`udev(7)` to persistently set the right permissions. The
following rules are targeted for an Ubuntu system, and stored in
``/etc/udev/rules.d/51-cache-disk.rules``::

   # Assign DiskA and DiskB to the tserver group
   # make the assignment final, no later changes allowed to the group!
   SUBSYSTEM=="block", KERNEL=="sd[ef]", GROUP:="tserver"

In order to apply these settings, trigger a reload with :manpage:`udevadm(8)`:::

   udevadm trigger --subsystem-match=block


FreeBSD Example
---------------

Starting with 5.1 FreeBSD dropped support for explicit raw devices. All
devices on FreeBSD can be accessed raw now.

The following example will use an entire raw disk in the FreeBSD
operating system::

   /dev/ada1
   /dev/ada2

In order to make sure :program:`traffic_server` will have access to this disk
you can use :manpage:`devfs(8)` to persistently set the right permissions. The
following rules are stored in :manpage:`devfs.conf(5)`::

   # Assign /dev/ada1 and /dev/ada2 to the tserver user
   own    ada[12]  tserver:tserver

Advanced
--------

Because relative paths in :file:`storage.config` are relative to the base prefix, when using customized runroot
it may be necessary to adjust such paths in :file:`storage.config` or adjust ``runroot.yaml`` itself.
Despite the name, the cachedir value is not used for this file.

Commit message:

adding a note into storage.config admin doc about cache invalidation when changes are made

doc/admin-guide/files/storage.config.en.rst, after:

.. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
   or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
   distributed with this work for additional information
   regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
   to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
   "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
   with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
   software distributed under the License is distributed on an
   "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
   KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
   specific language governing permissions and limitations
   under the License.

==============
storage.config
==============

.. configfile:: storage.config

The :file:`storage.config` file (by default, located in
``/usr/local/etc/trafficserver/``) lists all the files, directories, and/or
hard disk partitions that make up the Traffic Server cache. After you
modify the :file:`storage.config` file the new settings will not be effective until Traffic Server is restarted.

Format
======

The format of the :file:`storage.config` file is a series of lines of the form

   *pathname* *size* [ ``volume=``\ *number* ] [ ``id=``\ *string* ]

where :arg:`pathname` is the name of a partition, directory or file, :arg:`size` is the size of the
named partition, directory or file (in bytes), and :arg:`volume` is the volume number used in the
files :file:`volume.config` and :file:`hosting.config`. :arg:`id` is used for seeding the
:ref:`assignment-table`. You must specify a size for directories; size is optional for files and raw
partitions. :arg:`volume` and arg:`seed` are optional.

.. note::

   The :arg:`volume` option is independent of the :arg:`seed` option and either can be used with or without the other,
   and their ordering on the line is irrelevant.

.. note::

   If the :arg:`id` option is used every use must have a unique value for :arg:`string`.

.. note::

   Any change to this files can (and almost always will) invalidate the existing cache in its entirety.

You can use any partition of any size. For best performance:

-  Use raw disk partitions.
-  For each disk, make all partitions the same size.
-  For each node, use the same number of partitions on all disks.
-  Group similar kinds of storage into different volumes. For example
   split out SSD's or RAM drives into their own volume.

Specify pathnames according to your operating system requirements. See
the following examples. In the :file:`storage.config` file, a formatted or
raw disk must be at least 128 MB.

When using raw disk or partitions, you should make sure the :ts:cv:`Traffic
Server user <proxy.config.admin.user_id>` used by the Traffic Server process
has read and write privileges on the raw disk device or partition. One good
practice is to make sure the device file is set with 'g+rw' and the Traffic
Server user is in the group which owns the device file.  However, some
operating systems have stronger requirements - see the following examples for
more information.

As with standard ``records.config`` integers, human readable prefixes are also
supported. They include

   - ``K`` Kilobytes (1024 bytes)
   - ``M`` Megabytes (1024^2 or 1,048,576 bytes)
   - ``G`` Gigabytes (1024^3 or 1,073,741,824 bytes)
   - ``T`` Terabytes (1024^4 or 1,099,511,627,776 bytes)

.. _assignment-table:

Assignment Table
----------------

Each storage element defined in :file:`storage.config` is divided in to :term:`stripes <cache stripe>`. The
assignment table maps from an object URL to a specific stripe. The table is initialized based on a
pseudo-random process which is seeded by hashing a string for each stripe. This string is composed
of a base string, an offset (the start of the stripe on the storage element), and the length of the
stripe. By default the path for the storage is used as the base string. This ensures that each
stripe has a unique string for the assignment hash. This does make the assignment table very
sensitive to the path for the storage elements and changing even one can have a cascading effect
which will effectively clear most of the cache. This can be problem when drives fail and a system
reboot causes the path names to change.

The :arg:`id` option can be used to create a fixed string that an administrator can use to keep the
assignment table consistent by maintaining the mapping from physical device to base string even in the presence of hardware changes and failures.

Examples
========

The following basic example shows 128 MB of cache storage in the
``/big_dir`` directory::

   /big_dir 134217728

You can use the ``.`` symbol for the current directory. Here is an
example for 64 MB of cache storage in the current directory::

   . 134217728

As an alternative, using the human readable prefixes, you can express a 64GB
cache file with::

   /really_big_dir 64G


.. note::
    When using on-filesystem cache disk storage, you can only have one such
    directory specified. This will be addressed in a future version.


Solaris Example
---------------

The following example is for the Solaris operating system::

   /dev/rdsk/c0t0d0s5
   /dev/rdsk/c0t0d1s5

.. note:: Size is optional. If not specified, the entire partition is used.

Linux Example
-------------
.. note::
    Rather than refer to disk devices like ``/dev/sda``, ``/dev/sdb``, etc.,
    modern Linux supports `alternative symlinked names for disk devices
    <https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/persistent_block_device_naming#by-id_and_by-path>`_ in the ``/dev/disk``
    directory structure. As noted for the :ref:`assignment-table` the path used for the disk can effect
    the cache if it changes. This can be ameloriated in some cases by using one of the alternate paths
    in via ``/dev/disk``. Note that if the ``by-id`` or ``by-path`` style is used, replacing a failed drive will cause
    that path to change because the new drive will have a different physical ID or path. The original hash string can
    be kept by adding :arg:`id` or :arg:`path` with the original path to the storage line.

    If this is not sufficient then the :arg:`id` or :arg:`path` argument should be used to create a more permanent
    assignment table. An example would be::

       /dev/sde id=cache.disk.0
       /dev/sdg id=cache.disk.1

The following example will use an entire raw disk in the Linux operating
system::

   /dev/disk/by-id/[DiskA_ID]    volume=1
   /dev/disk/by-path/[DiskB_Path]   volume=2

In order to make sure :program:`traffic_server` will have access to this disk
you can use :manpage:`udev(7)` to persistently set the right permissions. The
following rules are targeted for an Ubuntu system, and stored in
``/etc/udev/rules.d/51-cache-disk.rules``::

   # Assign DiskA and DiskB to the tserver group
   # make the assignment final, no later changes allowed to the group!
   SUBSYSTEM=="block", KERNEL=="sd[ef]", GROUP:="tserver"

In order to apply these settings, trigger a reload with :manpage:`udevadm(8)`:::

   udevadm trigger --subsystem-match=block


FreeBSD Example
---------------

Starting with 5.1 FreeBSD dropped support for explicit raw devices. All
devices on FreeBSD can be accessed raw now.

The following example will use an entire raw disk in the FreeBSD
operating system::

   /dev/ada1
   /dev/ada2

In order to make sure :program:`traffic_server` will have access to this disk
you can use :manpage:`devfs(8)` to persistently set the right permissions. The
following rules are stored in :manpage:`devfs.conf(5)`::

   # Assign /dev/ada1 and /dev/ada2 to the tserver user
   own    ada[12]  tserver:tserver

Advanced
--------

Because relative paths in :file:`storage.config` are relative to the base prefix, when using customized runroot
it may be necessary to adjust such paths in :file:`storage.config` or adjust ``runroot.yaml`` itself.
Despite the name, the cachedir value is not used for this file.
