doc/developer-guide/api/functions/TSRemap.en.rst, before:

.. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
   or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
   distributed with this work for additional information
   regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
   to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
   "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
   with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.

.. include:: ../../../common.defs

.. default-domain:: c

TSRemapInit
***********

Traffic Server remap plugin entry points.

Synopsis
========

`#include <ts/ts.h>`
`#include <ts/remap.h>`

.. function:: TSReturnCode TSRemapInit(TSRemapInterface * api_info, char * errbuf, int errbuf_size)
.. function:: void TSRemapConfigReload(void)
.. function:: void TSRemapDone(void)
.. function:: TSRemapStatus TSRemapDoRemap(void * ih, TSHttpTxn rh, TSRemapRequestInfo * rri)
.. function:: TSReturnCode TSRemapNewInstance(int argc, char * argv[], void ** ih, char * errbuf, int errbuf_size)
.. function:: void TSRemapDeleteInstance(void * )
.. function:: void TSRemapOSResponse(void * ih, TSHttpTxn rh, int os_response_type)

Description
===========

The Traffic Server remap interface provides a simplified mechanism for
plugins to manipulate HTTP transactions. A remap plugin is not global; it
is configured on a per-remap rule basis, which enables you to customize
how URLs are redirected based on individual rules in :file:`remap.config`.
Writing a remap plugin consists of implementing one or more of the
remap entry points and configuring :file:`remap.config` to
route the transaction through your plugin. Multiple remap plugins can be
specified for a single remap rule, resulting in a remap plugin chain
where each plugin is given an opportunity to examine the HTTP transaction.

:func:`TSRemapInit` is a required entry point. This function will be called
once when Traffic Server loads the plugin. If the optional :func:`TSRemapDone`
entry point is available, Traffic Server will call then when unloading
the remap plugin.

A remap plugin may be invoked for different remap rules. Traffic Server
will call the entry point each time a plugin is specified in a remap
rule. When a remap plugin instance is no longer required, Traffic Server
will call :func:`TSRemapDeleteInstance`. At that point, it's safe to remove
any data or continuations associated with that instance.

:func:`TSRemapDoRemap` is called for each HTTP transaction. This is a mandatory
entry point. In this function, the remap plugin may examine and modify
the HTTP transaction.

:func:`TSRemapConfigReload` is called once for every remap plugin just before the
remap configuration file (:file:`remap.config`) is reloaded. This is an optional
entry point, which takes no arguments and has no return value.

Types
=====

.. type:: TSRemapStatus

    Status return value for remap callback.

    .. macro:: TSREMAP_DID_REMAP

        The remap callback modified the request.

    .. macro:: TSREMAP_DID_REMAP_STOP

        The remap callback modified the request and that no more remapping callbacks should be invoked.

    .. macro:: TSREMAP_NO_REMAP

        The remap callback did not modify the request.

    .. macro:: TSREMAP_NO_REMAP_STOP

        The remap callback did not modify the request and that no further remapping
        callbacks should be invoked.

    .. macro:: TSREMAP_ERROR

        The remapping attempt in general failed and the transaction should fail with an
        error return to the user agent.

Return Values
=============

:func:`TSRemapInit` and :func:`TSRemapNewInstance` should return
:data:`TS_SUCCESS` on success, and :data:`TS_ERROR` otherwise. A
return value of :data:`TS_ERROR` is unrecoverable.

:func:`TSRemapDoRemap` returns a status code that indicates whether the HTTP transaction has been
modified and whether Traffic Server should continue to evaluate the chain of remap plugins. If the
transaction was modified, the plugin should return :macro:`TSREMAP_DID_REMAP` or
:macro:`TSREMAP_DID_REMAP_STOP`; otherwise it should return :macro:`TSREMAP_NO_REMAP` or
:macro:`TSREMAP_NO_REMAP_STOP`. If Traffic Server should not send the transaction to subsequent
plugins in the remap chain, return :macro:`TSREMAP_NO_REMAP_STOP` or :macro:`TSREMAP_DID_REMAP_STOP`.
Returning :macro:`TSREMAP_ERROR` causes Traffic Server to stop evaluating the remap chain and respond
with an error.

See Also
========

:manpage:`TSAPI(3ts)`

Commit message:

For TS remap API functions, elaborate on mutual exclusion in the documentation.

doc/developer-guide/api/functions/TSRemap.en.rst, after:

.. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
   or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
   distributed with this work for additional information
   regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
   to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
   "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
   with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.

.. include:: ../../../common.defs

.. default-domain:: c

TSRemapInit
***********

Traffic Server remap plugin entry points.

Synopsis
========

`#include <ts/ts.h>`
`#include <ts/remap.h>`

.. function:: TSReturnCode TSRemapInit(TSRemapInterface * api_info, char * errbuf, int errbuf_size)
.. function:: void TSRemapConfigReload(void)
.. function:: void TSRemapDone(void)
.. function:: TSRemapStatus TSRemapDoRemap(void * ih, TSHttpTxn rh, TSRemapRequestInfo * rri)
.. function:: TSReturnCode TSRemapNewInstance(int argc, char * argv[], void ** ih, char * errbuf, int errbuf_size)
.. function:: void TSRemapDeleteInstance(void * )
.. function:: void TSRemapOSResponse(void * ih, TSHttpTxn rh, int os_response_type)

Description
===========

The Traffic Server remap interface provides a simplified mechanism for
plugins to manipulate HTTP transactions. A remap plugin is not global; it
is configured on a per-remap rule basis, which enables you to customize
how URLs are redirected based on individual rules in :file:`remap.config`.
Writing a remap plugin consists of implementing one or more of the
remap entry points and configuring :file:`remap.config` to
route the transaction through your plugin. Multiple remap plugins can be
specified for a single remap rule, resulting in a remap plugin chain
where each plugin is given an opportunity to examine the HTTP transaction.

:func:`TSRemapInit` is a required entry point. This function will be called
once when Traffic Server loads the plugin. If the optional :func:`TSRemapDone`
entry point is available, Traffic Server will call then when unloading
the remap plugin.

A remap plugin may be invoked for different remap rules. Traffic Server
will call the entry point each time a plugin is specified in a remap
rule. When a remap plugin instance is no longer required, Traffic Server
will call :func:`TSRemapDeleteInstance`. At that point, it's safe to remove
any data or continuations associated with that instance.

:func:`TSRemapDoRemap` is called for each HTTP transaction. This is a mandatory
entry point. In this function, the remap plugin may examine and modify
the HTTP transaction.

:func:`TSRemapConfigReload` is called once for every remap plugin just before the
remap configuration file (:file:`remap.config`) is reloaded. This is an optional
entry point, which takes no arguments and has no return value.

Generally speaking, calls to these functions are mutually exclusive. The exception
is for functions which take an HTTP transaction as a parameter. Calls to these
transaction-specific functions for different transactions are not necessarily mutually exclusive
of each other.

Types
=====

.. type:: TSRemapStatus

    Status return value for remap callback.

    .. macro:: TSREMAP_DID_REMAP

        The remap callback modified the request.

    .. macro:: TSREMAP_DID_REMAP_STOP

        The remap callback modified the request and that no more remapping callbacks should be invoked.

    .. macro:: TSREMAP_NO_REMAP

        The remap callback did not modify the request.

    .. macro:: TSREMAP_NO_REMAP_STOP

        The remap callback did not modify the request and that no further remapping
        callbacks should be invoked.

    .. macro:: TSREMAP_ERROR

        The remapping attempt in general failed and the transaction should fail with an
        error return to the user agent.

Return Values
=============

:func:`TSRemapInit` and :func:`TSRemapNewInstance` should return
:data:`TS_SUCCESS` on success, and :data:`TS_ERROR` otherwise. A
return value of :data:`TS_ERROR` is unrecoverable.

:func:`TSRemapDoRemap` returns a status code that indicates whether the HTTP transaction has been
modified and whether Traffic Server should continue to evaluate the chain of remap plugins. If the
transaction was modified, the plugin should return :macro:`TSREMAP_DID_REMAP` or
:macro:`TSREMAP_DID_REMAP_STOP`; otherwise it should return :macro:`TSREMAP_NO_REMAP` or
:macro:`TSREMAP_NO_REMAP_STOP`. If Traffic Server should not send the transaction to subsequent
plugins in the remap chain, return :macro:`TSREMAP_NO_REMAP_STOP` or :macro:`TSREMAP_DID_REMAP_STOP`.
Returning :macro:`TSREMAP_ERROR` causes Traffic Server to stop evaluating the remap chain and respond
with an error.

See Also
========

:manpage:`TSAPI(3ts)`
